it's very hard to figure out when the
first kings appeared in history
but archaeologists have dug up the
graves of people who look a lot like
kings and queens as far back as 20 or 30
000 years ago
back in the ice age when much of europe
and north america was covered with
frozen glaciers and people were hunting
mammals
every now and then they discover a grave
completely full of beads and necklaces
and crowns and scepters made from ivory
and shells
and other things people thought were
very precious at the time
they seem extremely regal
whoever was buried in them was clearly
very important and considered different
from everybody else
but when archaeologists inspect the
bodies more carefully they usually
discover
they were different in other ways as
well most were physically strange
some were really tall
almost like giants
some were dwarfs or hunchbacks
even the ones that seem normal from
their skeletons probably didn't look
very normal at the time you know maybe
one of their eyes was brown and one was
blue that would be known from the
skeleton
so
what does all what does all this mean
well we can't know for sure but what we
do know
is that mammoth hunters
long ago spent a lot of their time
making really elaborate and beautiful
costumes for some very unusual looking
people
the kind of thing that later would have
been called fit for a king but that
aside from that there was no sign of a
kingdom
there isn't the slightest evidence of
any palaces courts treasuries armies or
anything like that
instead
people seem to have scattered out in
little family groups of the summer and
then in the winter gathered together
again what were almost tiny little
cities where they they had feasts and
festivals
sometimes
there were great collective houses
covered in mammoth tusks
but never do you see special palaces or
ports or mansions just for kings
so
who were these strange people
our best guess is
maybe they were play kings maybe
strange-looking people were considered
divine just because they look so strange
maybe they even treated them like gods
sometimes for instance during festivals
or other celebrations even though at
other times they were just ordinary
strange-looking
people
maybe theater and games were
where one person was made king could do
anything they liked came first
and only later did people forget they
were just playing
but how did that happen
so that doesn't explain how some people
ended up in a position where they could
tell everybody else what to do let alone
pass that position onto their children
was it because they were so charming or
beautiful that people just somehow
wanted to do whatever they said
or were they so clever they managed to
trick everyone to thinking they were
gods
or were they just really big and scary
and even if they were more charming or
brilliant or terrifying than anyone else
how did they manage to convince everyone
to let their children take over when
they died since their children might
just as easily be weak or ugly or stupid
we don't
but that isn't going to stop us from
guessing so here's one idea
maybe it was all just a game that went
terribly wrong
let's go back to those gods again even
people who don't have kings often think
gods and goddesses act a little like
kings imposing all sorts of rules on us
and punishing anyone who breaks them
now
some of these rules
are always very sensible be generous to
strangers or don't break other people's
things
but mothers just seem completely random
you can never eat corn when it's raining
every friday you have to eat fish
and often no one knows why these rules
exist but always
they're quite sure that if they don't
follow them
something very bad will happen even if
they're not always sure what
say you eat corn when it's raining and
then somebody's cat gets hit by
lightning
then you're in trouble because everyone
will think it was your fault so here's
one idea
maybe it was all a game of make-believe
let's imagine during certain times of
year people would dress up in costumes
and pretend to be gods and goddesses and
dragons and monsters
this isn't hard to imagine because there
are still some places like greenland or
tierra del fuego
where they still do
let's also imagine since this is true
too
there are drums music dancing games and
speeches and funny voices
when the gods appear
but also
very complicated rules about who could
sing what song
or dance what dance and how they had to
do it
so far this seems like innocent good fun
but
here's where it gets difficult in
everyday life
you don't need anyone to enforce the
rules it's enough to know everyone will
get mad at you if you break the rules
and
then someone's cat gets hit by lightning
but
when the gods actually show up it's
different
there are too many rules
but you also don't want the people
playing gods to enforce the rules
because
god should be too high and mighty to
have to pay attention to who's sitting
when they're supposed to be standing or
talking out of turn
so you get someone to be master of
ceremonies
often these ceremonies were the only
time anyone got to order anyone else
around
so you have to be careful that the
person who enforces the rules isn't
taken too seriously
so often that person would be a clown
they enforce the rules but the rules
didn't apply to them they could be as
silly as they liked in fact they were
supposed to be silly
but they were also a little like police
they could punish people for breaking
the rules
sometimes
they'd intentionally try to confuse
everyone do the ceremony wrong tell
jokes tend to fall flat on their face
but no one was supposed to laugh
if anyone laughed
they'd make them pay a fine or throw
them in the air or take their clothes
away
since they could do anything sometimes
they'd make up new rules
now let's imagine these games started
lasting for weeks or even months
which did sometimes happen
well
maybe at some point people forgot that
they were playing a game
here they started acting
like that all the time and the people
who got to make up the rules
okay